Initial implementation (#1)
yousty/pg_eventstore: docs/writing_middleware.md

# Writing middleware

> Middlewares are objects that modify events before they are going to be appended to a stream, or right after they being read from a stream. `#serialize` method is called each time an event is going to be appended. `#deserialize` method is called each time an event is read from a stream. Example of middleware:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Middlewares are objects that modify events before they are appended to a stream, or right after they are read from a stream. The `#serialize` method is called each time an event is going to be appended. The `#deserialize` method is called each time an event is read from a stream. Example of middleware:
```

```ruby
require 'securerandom'

> # Provide some basic functional of large payload implementation. Every event in your app will be inherited from this class

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Provide some basic functionality for large payload extraction implementations. Every event in your app will be inherited from this class.
```

class MyAppAbstractEvent < PgEventstore::Event

>   def self.payload_fields

Reviewer: Better: `arge_payload_fields` Because every field has a payload.

    []
  end

  def fields_with_large_payloads
    data.slice(*self.class.payload_fields)
  end
end

class DescriptionChangedEvent < MyAppAbstractEvent

>   def self.payload_fields

Author: This is a documentation of `pg_eventstore` gem - not of the `yousty-eventsourcing` gem. This gem has nothing common with it. Besides, I can't reveal the details of our private gem

>   def self.payload_fields

Reviewer: Yes Ivan, but our implementation is not staying closed source and that kind of naming is not a secret and should represent our best practice which we want to spread. Unless we know we made a naming mistkae that is hard to change now. ;-)

    %w[description]
  end
end

> class ExtractLargePayload

Author: Well, then I would need to perform some checks over the compatibility of the given objects when passed to `middlewares` objects. But I actually don't care what is passed there. If user did a mistake - the worst what can happen is he will see `NoMethodError`.

> class ExtractLargePayload

Author: As discussed on meeting - I'll implement interface, but won't force users to use it

  def serialize(event)
    return if event.fields_with_large_payloads.empty?

    event.fields_with_large_payloads.each do |field, value|
      # Extract fields with large payload asynchronously.
      event.data[field] = extract_large_payload_async(field, value)
    end
  end

  def deserialize(event)
    # Load real values for large payload fields. You can use self.class.payload_fields here, but then you would require
    # the event definition in each mircoservice you load this event
    event.data.select { |k, v| v.start_with?('large-payload:') }.each do |field, value|
      event.data[field] = resolve_large_payload(value.delete('large-payload:'))
    end
  end

  private

  def extract_large_payload_async(field_name, value)

>     payload_key = "large-payload:#{field_name}-#{Digest::MD5.hexdigest(value)}"

Author: As I mentioned in previous comment - I can't reveal the implementation of our internal gem.

    Thread.new do

>       Faraday.post(

Author: The point of this documentation is to show the way how it can be implemented - not to implement a micro-service in docs.

        "https://my.awesome.api/api/extract_large_payload",
        { payload_key: payload_key, value: value }
      )
    end
    payload_key
  end

  def resolve_large_payload(payload_key)
    JSON.parse(Faraday.get("https://my.awesome.api/api/large_payload", { payload_key: payload_key }).body)['value']
  end
end

# Configure our middlewares
PgEventstore.configure do |config|
  config.middlewares = [ExtractLargePayload.new]
end
```

Now you can use it as follows:

```ruby
event = DescriptionChangedEvent.new(data: { 'description' => 'some description' })
stream = PgEventstore::Stream.new(context: 'ctx', stream_name: 'some-stream', stream_id: '1')
PgEventstore.client.append_to_stream(stream, event)
# => #<DescriptionChangedEvent:0x0 @data={"description"=>"large-payload:description-7815696ecbf1c96e6894b779456d330e"}, ...>
```

But when you read it next time, it will automatically resolve the `description` value:

```ruby
stream = PgEventstore::Stream.new(context: 'ctx', stream_name: 'some-stream', stream_id: '1')
PgEventstore.client.read(stream).last
# => #<DescriptionChangedEvent:0x0 @data={"description"=>"some description"}, ...>
```

## Remarks

> It is important to know that `pg_eventstore` may retry commands, thus `#serialize` and `#deserialize` methods may also be retried. You have to make sure that the implementation of `#serialize` and `#deserialize` always returns the same result for the same input, and it does not create duplications. Let's look at the `#serialize` implementation from the example above:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is important to know that `pg_eventstore` may retry commands. In that case `#serialize` and `#deserialize` methods may also be retried. You have to make sure that the implementation of `#serialize` and `#deserialize` always returns the same result for the same input, and it does not create duplications. Let's look at the `#serialize` implementation from the example above:
```

```ruby
def serialize(event)
  return if event.fields_with_large_payloads.empty?

  event.fields_with_large_payloads.each do |field, value|
    # Extract fields with large payload asynchronously.
    event.data[field] = extract_large_payload_async(field, value)
  end
end

private

def extract_large_payload_async(field_name, value)
  payload_key = "large-payload:#{field_name}-#{Digest::MD5.hexdigest(value)}"
  Thread.new do
    Faraday.post(
      "https://my.awesome.api/api/extract_large_payload",
      { payload_key: payload_key, value: value }
    )
  end
  payload_key
end
```

> 

Author: Yes, we have an issue with our current implementation

> 

Reviewer: Yes, we have, we noticed that already a while ago.
